OSDOCS-9954: oc (CLI) needs to be functional or fail gracefully without oauth server (#74184)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/oc-by-example-content.adoc

  oc login --exec-plugin=oc-oidc --issuer-url=<issuer_url> --client-id=<client_id> --extra-scopes=email,profile --callback-port=8080

  # Log in with an external OIDC if the external OIDC certificate is not publically trusted
  oc login --exec-plugin=oc-oidc --issuer-url=<issuer_url> --client-id=<client_id> --extra-scopes=email --callback-port=8080 --oidc-certificate-authority <CA for external OIDC certificate>
endif::openshift-dedicated,openshift-rosa[]  
----

ifdef::openshift-dedicated,openshift-rosa[]
.Arguments
[cols="30,70"]
|===
|Option |Definition

|`--exec-plugin`
|Specifies the type of exec plugin credentials used to authenticate the external OIDC issuer. Currently, only `oc-oidc` is supported.

|`--issuer-url`
|Issuer URL for the external issuer. Required.

|`--client-id`
|Client ID for the external OIDC issuer. Only supports Auth Code and PKCE. Required.

|`--extra-scopes`
|Extra scopes for the external OIDC issuer. Optional.

|`--callback-port`
|The port that the callback server is redirected to after authentication flow is complete. The default is any random, open port.

|`--oidc-certificate-authority`

> |Path to a certificate file for the certificate authority.

Reviewer: Thanks for many updates so far. I can nearly add LGTM but seems one comment https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/74184#discussion_r1576060139 was not fully checked :) i.e. the suggested adding of "external OIDC" was missed :) .
```suggestion
|Path to a certificate file for the external OIDC certificate authority.
```
After this, PR can go forward to be merged, could you add one more update?

Reviewer 2: While @jneczypor adds this, @xingxingxia, I noticed that the `--exec-plugin` argument only supports `oc-oidc` currently. Does that mean that `oc login --exec-plugin=oc-oidc --issuer-url=<issuer_url> --client-id=<client_id> --extra-scopes=email --callback-port=8080 --oidc-certificate-authority <CA for external OIDC certificate>` command does not work on external OIDCs yet, like I am attempting to do here: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/73839?

Reviewer: @EricPonvelle The "`oc login --exec-plugin=oc-oidc --issuer-url=<issuer_url> --client-id=<client_id> --extra-scopes=email --callback-port=8080 --oidc-certificate-authority <CA for external OIDC certificate>`" command is exactly for use for external OIDC clusters. `oc-oidc` is exactly for external OIDCs.

  oc login localhost:8443 --web --callback-port 8280

  # Log in to the external OIDC issuer through Auth Code + PKCE by starting a local server listening port 8080
  oc login --exec-plugin=oc-oidc --issuer-url=<issuer_url> --client-id=<client_id> --extra-scopes=email,profile --callback-port=8080

> ifdef::openshift-dedicated,openshift-rosa[]

Reviewer: @jneczypor I'm not sure whether `openshift-dedicated,openshift-rosa` condition is discussed / agreed on by you and others. I assume yes. Given so, line 1860 needs to be moved down within the `ifdef` too, because line 1860 is also about external oidc feature (i.e. `without oauth server` as PR title).

  # Log in with an external OIDC if the external OIDC certificate is not publically trusted
  oc login --exec-plugin=oc-oidc --issuer-url=<issuer_url> --client-id=<client_id> --extra-scopes=email --callback-port=8080 --oidc-certificate-authority <CA for external OIDC certificate>
endif::openshift-dedicated,openshift-rosa[]  
----

ifdef::openshift-dedicated,openshift-rosa[]
.Arguments
[cols="30,70"]
|===
|Option |Definition

> |--exec-plugin

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|`--exec-plugin`
```

> |Specify credentials exec plugin type to be used to authenticate external OIDC issuer. Currently only `oc-oidc` is supported.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|Specify the type of credentials exec plugin you want to use to authenticate the external OIDC issuer. Currently only `oc-oidc` is supported.
```

> |--issuer-url

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|`--issuer-url`
```

> |Issuer url for external issuer. Required.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|Issuer URL for the external issuer. This is a mandatory option.
```

> |--client-id

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|`--client-id`
```

> |Client ID for external OIDC issuer. Only supports Auth Code + PKCE. Required.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|Client ID for the external OIDC issuer. This is a mandatory option and only supports Auth Code and PKCE.
```

> |--extra-scopes

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|`--extra-scopes`
```

> |Extra scopes for external OIDC issuer. Optional.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|Extra scopes for the external OIDC issuer. This is optional.
```

> |--callback-port

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|`--callback-port`
```

> |Port for the callback server when using --web. Defaults to a random open port.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|Port for the callback server when using `--web`. The default value is any open port.
```

Reviewer: This `--callback-port` flag can be used with the ealirer `--web` feature, also can be used with the `without oauth server` feature. This PR is for the latter. So, suggest as below to be more common wording.
```suggestion
|Port for the callback server redirected to after authentication flow is completed. Defaults to a random open port.
```

> |--oidc-certificate-authority

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|`--oidc-certificate-authority`
```

> |Path to a cert file for the certificate authority.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|Path to a certificate file for the certificate authority.
```

> |Path to a cert file for the certificate authority.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Path to a certificate file for the external OIDC certificate authority.
```
@jneczypor , except above comments, PR LGTM.

  oc login localhost:8443 --web --callback-port 8280

  # Log in to the external OIDC issuer through Auth Code + PKCE by starting a local server listening port 8080
  oc login --exec-plugin=oc-oidc --issuer-url=<issuer_url> --client-id=<client_id> --extra-scopes=email,profile --callback-port=8080

  # Log in with an external OIDC if the external OIDC certificate is not publically trusted

>   oc login --exec-plugin=oc-oidc --issuer-url=<issuer_url> --client-id=<client_id> --extra-scopes=email --callback-port=8080 --oidc-certificate-authority <CA for external OIDC certificate>

Reviewer: Hi, the updates are good. But one previous comment https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/74184#discussion_r1556795939 seems not yet resolved. Could you help check?

Author: @xingxingxia - I have added the explanation of the arguments for this particular command. I hope that helps. Thanks!

  oc login localhost:8443 --web --callback-port 8280

  # Log in to the external OIDC issuer through Auth Code + PKCE by starting a local server listening port 8080

>   oc login localhost:8443 --exec-plugin=oc-oidc --client-id=client-id --extra-scopes=email,profile --callback-port=8080 --issuer-url=$ISSUER_URL
> 
>   # Log in with an external OIDC
>   oc login --exec-plugin=oc-oidc --issuer-url=$ISSUER_URL --client-id=$CLI_CLIENT_ID --extra-scopes=email,profile --callback-port=8080

Reviewer: Sorry if previous comment https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/74184#discussion_r1554849352 was not clear. It meant: remove line 1860; line 1863 has same meaning of 1860. Below is suggestion of change:
```suggestion
  oc login --exec-plugin=oc-oidc --issuer-url=<issuer url> --client-id=<client id> --extra-scopes=email,profile --callback-port=8080
```

  # Log in with an external OIDC if the external OIDC certificate is not publically trusted

>   oc login --exec-plugin=oc-oidc --issuer-url=$ISSUER_URL --client-id=$CLI_CLIENT_ID --extra-scopes=email --callback-port=8080 --oidc-certificate-authority <CA for external OIDC certificate>

Reviewer: Sorry if former comment https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/74184#discussion_r1554849700 was not clear. It meant: instead of using the Shell variable format ISSUER_URL/$CLI_CLIENT_ID, let's use placehold text <issuer url> / <client id>

  # Log in to the external OIDC issuer through Auth Code + PKCE by starting a local server listening port 8080
  oc login localhost:8443 --exec-plugin=oc-oidc --client-id=client-id --extra-scopes=email,profile --callback-port=8080

  # Log in with an external OIDC

>   oc login --exec-plugin=oc-oidc --issuer-url=$ISSUER_URL --client-id=$CLI_CLIENT_ID --extra-scopes=email,profile --callback-port=8080

Reviewer: Line 1860 and line 1863 seem duplicate. Only need one of them.

  # Log in with an external OIDC if the external OIDC certificate is not publically trusted

>   oc login --exec-plugin=oc-oidc --issuer-url=$ISSUER_URL --client-id=$CLI_CLIENT_ID --extra-scopes=email --callback-port=8080 --oidc-certificate-authority router-ca/ca-bundle.crt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  oc login --exec-plugin=oc-oidc --issuer-url=$ISSUER_URL --client-id=$CLI_CLIENT_ID --extra-scopes=email --callback-port=8080 --oidc-certificate-authority <CA for external OIDC certificate>
```

Reviewer: It seems you'd better to not use the $VAR_NAME format in a document for the commands.

Reviewer: BTW, does the document need to explain each argument --issuer-url/--client-id/--extra-scopes=email et al to end users?

Reviewer: BTW --oidc-certificate-authority needs @ardaguclu's https://github.com/openshift/oc/pull/1720 implementation to be merged.

Author: If we wanted to explain each argument, I think we would want that in a different place in the docs. Maybe adding explanations here could be a future enhancement?

Author: Hi @arendej and @bchandra-ocp - Can I please get your input on how we want to explain the new usage? Thanks!
